---

name: "Installation"
title: "Installation • DipDup Docs"
description: "This page covers the installation of DipDup in different environments."
---

<!-- TODO: General doc rewrite todo:
1. Quickstart page, found where to move
2. Move FAQ to separate page from to-distribute
3. Add Troubleshooting page
4. Add Built with dipdup page
5. Add Command Line Interface reference
6. Add Config file class reference
7. Add changelog
8. Rethink and add release notes
9. Move license and contribution guide
10. Rest todo's, mostly fix links
 -->

<!-- TODO: MD025/single-title/single-h1: Multiple top-level headings in the same documentmarkdownlintMD025 -->

# Installation

This page covers the installation of DipDup in different environments.

## Host requirements

A Linux/macOS environment with Python 3.11 installed is required to use DipDup. Apple silicon is also supported. Other UNIX-like systems should work but are not supported officially. If you use Windows, please use [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) or Docker.

Minimum hardware requirements are 256 MB RAM, 1 CPU core, and some disk space for the database. RAM requirements increase with the number of indexes.

## Local installation

### Interactively

The easiest way to install DipDup is to use our interactive installer script. It will ask you a few questions and install DipDup with all dependencies. Run the following command in your terminal:

```shell [Terminal]
curl -Lsf https://dipdup.io/install.py | python
```

That's it! DipDip is installed as a CLI application and is available everywhere in a system. Now you can run `dipdup new` to spawn a new project from lots of ready-to-use templates and proceed to the next section: [Core concepts](2.core-concepts.md)

::banner{type="note"}
This script performs some basic checks, installs pipx for the current user, then installs dipdup and pdm with pipx. But it's always better to read the code before running it. To do so, `curl -Lsf https://dipdup.io/install.py | tee /tmp/install.py`, review the script, then run it with `python /tmp/install.py` to proceed.
::

### From scratch

If you don't want to use our installer, you can install DipDup manually. You can use any Python package manager you like, but we recommend [PDM](https://pdm.fming.dev/latest/).

First, create a new project directory and enter it:

```shell [Terminal]
mkdir {{ project.package }}; cd {{ project.package }}
```

Then use the snippets below to create a new Python project and add DipDup as a dependency.

#### PDM (recommended)

PDM is a very powerful package manager with a lot of features. Also, it can run scripts from pyproject.toml as npm does. It's a good choice for both beginners and advanced users.

```shell [Terminal]
pdm init --python ">=3.10,<3.11"
pdm add dipdup
pdm venv activate
```

#### Poetry

Poetry is another popular tool to manage Python projects. It's less stable and often slower than PDM, but it's still a good choice.

```shell [Terminal]
poetry init --python ">=3.10,<3.11"
poetry add dipdup
poetry shell
```

#### pip

Finally, if you prefer to do everything manually, you can use pip. It's the most basic package manager, but it's developed by the Python core team and is very stable.

```shell [Terminal]
python -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
echo "dipdup~={{ project.dipdup_version }}" >> requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements.txt -e .
```

## Docker

For Docker installation, please refer to the [Docker](../6.deployment/2.docker.md) page.
