---
title: "Models"
description: "To store indexed data in the database, you need to define models, that are Python classes that represent database tables. DipDup uses a custom ORM to manage models and transactions."
---

# Models

To store indexed data in the database, you need to define models, that are Python classes that represent database tables. DipDup uses a custom ORM to manage models and transactions.

## DipDup ORM

Our storage layer is based on [Tortoise ORM](https://tortoise.github.io/index.html). This library is fast, flexible, and has a syntax familiar to Django users. We have extended it with some useful features like a copy-on-write rollback mechanism, caching, and more. We plan to make things official and fork Tortoise ORM under a new name, but it's not ready yet. For now, let's call our implementation **DipDup ORM**.

Before we begin to dive into the details, here's an important note:

::banner{type="warning"}
Please, don't report DipDup ORM issues to the Tortoise ORM bug tracker! We patch it heavily to better suit our needs, so it's not the same library anymore.
::

You can use [Tortoise ORM docs](https://tortoise.github.io/examples.html) as a reference. We will describe only DipDup-specific features here.

## Defining models

Project models should be placed in the `models` directory in the project root. By default, the `__init__.py` module is created on project initialization, but you can use any structure you want. Models from nested packages will be discovered automatically.

Here's an example containing all available fields:

```python
{{ #include ../src/dipdup/templates/models.py }}
```

Pay attention to the imports: field and model classes **must** be imported from `dipdup` package instead of `tortoise` to make our extensions work.

Some limitations are applied to model names and fields to avoid ambiguity in GraphQL API:

- Table names must be in snake_case
- Model fields must be in snake_case
- Model fields must differ from the table name

## Basic usage

Now you can use these models in hooks and handlers.

```python
{{ #include ../src/demo_tezos_dao/handlers/on_propose.py }}
```

Visit [Tortose ORM docs](https://tortoise.github.io/examples.html) for more examples.

## Caching

::banner{type="warning"}
Caching API is experimental and may change in the future.
::

Some models can be cached to avoid unnecessary database queries. Use `CachedModel` base class for this purpose. It's a drop-in replacement for `dipdup.models.Model`, but with additional methods to manage the cache.

- `cached_get` — get a single object from the cache or the database
- `cached_get_or_none` — the same, but None result is also cached
- `cache` — cache a single object

See `demo_evm_uniswap` project for real-life examples.

## Differences from Tortoise ORM

This section describes the differences between DipDup and Tortoise ORM. Most likely won't notice them, but it's better to be aware of them.

### Fields

We use different column types for some fields to avoid unnecessary reindexing for minor schema changes. Some fields also behave slightly differently for the sake of performance.

- `TextField` can be indexed and used as a primary key. We can afford this since MySQL is not supported.
- `DecimalField` is stored as `DECIMAL(x,y)` both in SQLite and PostgreSQL. In Tortoise ORM it's `VARCHAR(40)` in SQLite for some reason. DipDup ORM doesn't have an upper bound for precision.
- `EnumField` is stored in `TEXT` column in DipDup ORM. There's no need in `VARCHAR` in SQLite and PostgreSQL. You can still add `max_length` directive for additional validation, but it won't affect the database schema.

We also have `ArrayField` for native array support in PostgreSQL.

### Querysets

Querysets are not copied between chained calls. Consider the following example:

```python
await dipdup.models.Index.filter().order_by('-level').first()
```

In Tortoise ORM each subsequent call creates a new queryset using an expensive `copy.`copy()` call. In DipDup ORM it's the same queryset, so it's much faster.

### Transactions

DipDup manages transactions automatically for indexes opening one for each level. You can't open another one. Entering a transaction context manually with `in_transaction()` will return the same active transaction. For hooks, there's the `atomic` flag in the configuration.
