---
title: "Database engines"
description: "DipDup officially supports SQLite, PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB as a database engine. This table will help you choose a database engine that mostly suits your needs."
---

# Database engines

DipDup officially supports SQLite, PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB as a database engine. This table will help you choose a database engine that mostly suits your needs.

|                      | SQLite            | PostgreSQL    | TimescaleDB             |
|:-------------------- |:----------------- |:------------- |:----------------------- |
| Recommended versions | latest            | 14, 15        | 14, 15                  |
| Best application     | early development | general usage | working with timeseries |
| SQL scripts          | 🟢                | 🟢            | 🟢                      |
| Immune tables        | ⚠️                | 🟢            | 🟢                      |
| Hasura integration   | 🔴                | 🟢            | 🟢                      |

By default, DipDup uses an in-memory SQLite database that is destroyed after the process exits.

::banner{type="warning"}
Immune tables support for SQLite is experimental and requires `advanced.unsafe_sqlite` flag set. Use this feature only for early experiments with database structure, and switch to PostgreSQL/TimescaleDB later.
::

The latest PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB versions are recommended due to significant performance improvements in recent releases (see [Feature matrix](https://www.postgresql.org/about/featurematrix/) page).

Usually, it's okay to use different database engines for development and production, but be careful with SQL scripts and column types that can behave differently.

## Immune tables

You might want to keep several tables during schema wipe if the data in them is not dependent on index states yet heavy. A typical example is indexing IPFS data — changes in your code won't affect off-chain storage, so you can safely reuse this data.

```yaml [dipdup.yaml]
database:
  immune_tables:
    - ipfs_assets
```

`immune_tables` is an optional array of table names that will be ignored during schema wipe. Once an immune table is created, DipDup will never touch it again (unless `schema wipe --immune` is called). If you need to change the schema of an immune table, you should perform a migration manually. Check `schema export` output before doing this to ensure the resulting schema is the same as Tortoise ORM would generate.

## TimescaleDB

TimescaleDB is a PostgreSQL extension that provides time-series data management capabilities. You can use it with DipDup as a drop-in replacement for PostgreSQL.

You can choose `timescale/timescaledb` or `timescale/timescaledb-ha` Docker images when initializing DipDup project.

::banner{type="warning"}
Be careful! Unlike other PostgreSQL images `timescale/timescaledb-ha` uses `/home/postgres/pgdata/data` as a persistent volume.
::

Use SQL scripts in `on_reindex` directory to prepare the database. First, create a hypertable replacing the primary key with a composite one:

```sql [sql/on_reindex/00_prepare_db.sql]
{{ #include ../src/demo_evm_uniswap/sql/on_reindex/00_prepare_db.sql }}
```

Now you can create a continuous aggregate on top of the hypertable:

```sql [sql/on_reindex/20_create_ca_quotes_1m.sql]
{{ #include ../src/demo_evm_uniswap/sql/on_reindex/20_create_ca_quotes_1m.sql }}
```

For more information visit the official TimescaleDB documentation:

- [Hypertables](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/hypertables/)
- [Continuous aggregates](https://docs.timescale.com/use-timescale/latest/continuous-aggregates/)
