# 4.0.0

## ⚠ Breaking Changes

* `run --oneshot` option is removed. The oneshot mode (DipDup stops after the sync is finished) applies automatically when `last_level` field is set in the index config.
* `clear-cache` command is removed. Use `cache clear` instead.

## Migration from 3.x

* Run `dipdup init` command to generate `on_synchronized` hook stubs.
* Run `dipdup schema approve` command on every database you want to use with 4.0.0. Running `dipdup migrate` is not necessary since `spec_version` hasn't changed in this release.

## What's New

### Performance optimizations

Overall indexing performance has been significantly improved. Key highlights:

* Configuration files are loaded 10x times faster. The more indexes in the project, the more noticeable difference is.
* Significantly reduced CPU usage in realtime mode.
* Datasource default HTTP connection options optimized for a reasonable balance between resource consumption and indexing speed.

Also, two new flags were added to improve DipDup performance in several scenarios: `merge_subscriptions` and `early_relatime`.  See [this paragraph](#new-cli-commands-and-flags) for details.

### Configurable action on reindex

There are several reasons that trigger reindexing:

|reason|description|
|-|-|
|`manual`|Reindexing triggered manually from callback with `ctx.reindex`.|
|`migration`|Applied migration requires reindexing. Check release notes before switching between major DipDup versions to be prepared.|
|`rollback`|Reorg message received from TzKT, and can not be processed.|
|`config_modified`|One of the index configs has been modified.|
|`schema_modified`|Database schema has been modified. Try to avoid manual schema modifications in favor of [SQL hooks](../advanced/sql.md).|

Now it is possible to configure desirable action on reindexing triggered by the specific reason.

|action|description|
|-|-|
|`exception` (default)|Raise `ReindexingRequiredError` and quit with error code. The safest option since you can trigger reindexing accidentally, e.g., by a typo in config. Don't forget to set up the correct restart policy when using it with containers. |
|`wipe`|Drop the whole database and start indexing from scratch. Be careful with this option!|
|`ignore`|Ignore the event and continue indexing as usual. It can lead to unexpected side-effects up to data corruption; make sure you know what you are doing.

To configure actions for each reason, add the following section to DipDup config:

```yaml
advanced:
  ...
  reindex:
    manual: wipe
    migration: exception
    rollback: ignore
    config_modified: exception
    schema_modified: exception
```

### New CLI commands and flags

|command or flag|description|
|-|-|
| `cache show` | Get information about file caches used by DipDup.
| `config export` | Print config after resolving all links and variables. Add `--unsafe` option to substitute environment variables; default values from config will be used otherwise. |
| `run --early-realtime` | Establish a realtime connection before all indexes are synchronized. |
| `run --merge-subscriptions` | Subscribe to all operations/big map diffs during realtime indexing. This flag helps to avoid reaching TzKT subscriptions limit (currently 10000 channels). Keep in mind that this option could significantly improve RAM consumption depending on the time required to perform a sync. |
| `status` | Print the current status of indexes from the database. |

### `advanced` top-level config section

This config section allows users to tune system-wide options, either experimental or unsuitable for generic configurations.

|field|description|
|-|-|
|`early_realtime`<br>`merge_subscriptions`<br>`postpone_jobs` |Another way to set `run` command flags. Useful for maintaining per-deployment configurations. |
|`reindex`|Configure action on reindexing triggered. See [this paragraph](#configurable-action-on-reindex) for details.|

CLI flags have priority over self-titled `AdvancedConfig` fields.

### `aiosignalrcore` replaced with `pysignalr`

It may not be the most noticeable improvement for end-user, but it still deserves a separate paragraph in this article.

Historically, DipDup used our own fork of `signalrcore` library named `aiosignalrcore`. This project aimed to replace the synchronous `websocket-client` library with asyncio-ready `websockets`. Later we discovered that required changes make it hard to maintain backward compatibility, so we have decided to rewrite this library from scratch. So now you have both a modern and reliable library for SignalR protocol and a much more stable DipDup. Ain't it nice?

## Changes since 3.1.3

This is a combined changelog of -rc versions released since the last stable release until this one.

### Added

* cli: Added `run --early-realtime` flag to establish a realtime connection before all indexes are synchronized.
* cli: Added'run --merge-subscriptions`  flag to subscribe to all operations/big map diffs during realtime indexing.
* cli: Added `status` command to print the current status of indexes from the database.
* cli: Added `config export [--unsafe]` command to print config after resolving all links and variables.
* cli: Added `cache show` command to get information about file caches used by DipDup.
* config: Added `first_level` and `last_level` optional fields to `TemplateIndexConfig`. These limits are applied after ones from the template itself.
* config: Added `daemon` boolean field to `JobConfig` to run a single callback indefinitely. Conflicts with `crontab` and `interval` fields.
* config: Added `advanced` top-level section.
* hooks: Added `on_synchronized` hook, which fires each time all indexes reach realtime state.

### Fixed

* cli: Fixed config not being verified when invoking some commands.
* cli: Fixed crashes and output inconsistency when piping DipDup commands.
* cli: Fixed missing `schema approve --hashes` argument.
* cli: Fixed `schema wipe --immune` flag being ignored.
* codegen: Fixed contract address used instead of an alias when typename is not set.
* codegen: Fixed generating callback arguments for untyped operations.
* codegen: Fixed missing imports in handlers generated during init.
* coinbase: Fixed possible data inconsistency caused by caching enabled for method `get_candles`.
* hasura: Fixed unnecessary reconfiguration in restart.
* http: Fixed increasing sleep time between failed request attempts.
* index: Fixed `CallbackError` raised instead of `ReindexingRequiredError` in some cases.
* index: Fixed crash while processing storage of some contracts.
* index: Fixed incorrect log messages, remove duplicate ones.
* index: Fixed invocation of head index callback.
* index: Fixed matching of untyped operations filtered by `source` field ([@pravin-d](https://github.com/pravin-d)).
* tzkt: Fixed filtering of big map diffs by the path.
* tzkt: Fixed `get_originated_contracts` and `get_similar_contracts` methods whose output was limited to `HTTPConfig.batch_size` field.
* tzkt: Fixed lots of SignalR bugs by replacing `aiosignalrcore` library with `pysignalr`.
* tzkt: Fixed processing operations with entrypoint `default`.
* tzkt: Fixed regression in processing migration originations.
* tzkt: Fixed resubscribing when realtime connectivity is lost for a long time.
* tzkt: Fixed sending useless subscription requests when adding indexes in runtime.

### Changed

* cli: `schema wipe` command now requires confirmation when invoked in the interactive shell.
* cli: `schema approve` command now also causes a recalculation of schema and index config hashes.
* index: DipDup will recalculate respective hashes if reindexing is triggered with `config_modified: ignore` or `schema_modified: ignore` in advanced config.

### Removed

* cli: Removed deprecated `run --oneshot` argument and `clear-cache` command.

### Performance

* config: Configuration files are loaded 10x times faster.
* index: Checks performed on each iteration of the main DipDup loop are slightly faster now.
* index: Number of operations processed by matcher reduced by 40%-95% depending on the number of addresses and entrypoints used.
* tzkt: Improved performance of response deserialization.
* tzkt: Rate limit was increased. Try to set `connection_timeout` to a higher value if requests fail with `ConnectionTimeout` exception.
