# 4.1.0

## Migration from 4.0 (optional)

* Run `dipdup schema init` on the existing database to enable `dipdup_head_status` view and REST endpoint.

## What's New

### Index only the current state of big maps

`big_map` indexes allow achieving faster processing times than `operation` ones when storage updates are the only on-chain data your dapp needs to function. With this DipDup release, you can go even further and index only the current storage state, ignoring historical changes.

```yaml
indexes:
  foo:
    kind: big_map
    ...
    skip_history: never|once|always
```

When this option is set to `once`, DipDup will skip historical changes only on initial sync and switch to regular indexing afterward. When the value is `always`, DipDup will fetch all big map keys on every restart. Preferrable mode depends on your workload.

All big map diffs DipDup pass to handlers during fast sync have `action` field set to `BigMapAction.ADD_KEY`. Keep in mind that DipDup fetches all keys in this mode, including ones removed from the big map. If needed, you can filter out the latter by `BigMapDiff.data.active` field.

### New datasource for contract and token metadata

Since the first version DipDup allows to fetch token metadata from Better Call Dev API with `bcd` datasource. Now it's time for a better solution. Firstly, BCD is far from being reliable in terms of metadata indexing. Secondly, spinning up your own instance of BCD requires significant effort and computing power. Lastly, we plan to deprecate Better Call Dev API soon (but do not worry - it won't affect the explorer frontend).

Luckily, we have [dipdup-metadata](https://github.com/dipdup-net/metadata), a standalone companion indexer for DipDup written in Go. Configure a new datasource in the following way:

```yaml
datasources:
  metadata:
    kind: metadata
    url: https://metadata.dipdup.net
    network: mainnet|ghostnet|jakartanet|kathmandunet
```

Now you can use it anywhere in your callbacks:

```python
datasource = ctx.datasources['metadata']
token_metadata = await datasource.get_token_metadata(address, token_id)
```

`bcd` datasource will remain available for a while, but we discourage using it for metadata processing.

### Nested packages for hooks and handlers

Callback modules are no longer have to be in top-level `hooks`/`handlers` directories. Add one or multiple dots to the callback name to define nested packages:

```yaml
package: indexer
hooks:
  foo.bar:
    callback: foo.bar
```

After running `init` command, you'll get the following directory tree (shortened for readability):

```text
indexer
├── hooks
│   ├── foo
│   │   ├── bar.py
│   │   └── __init__.py
│   └── __init__.py
└── sql
    └── foo
        └── bar
            └── .keep
```

The same rules apply to handler callbacks. Note that `callback` field must be a valid Python package name - lowercase letters, underscores, and dots.

### New CLI commands and flags

* `schema init` is a new command to prepare a database for running DipDip. It will create tables based on your models, then call `on_reindex` SQL hook to finish preparation - the same things DipDup does when run on a clean database.

* `hasura configure --force` flag allows to configure Hasura even if metadata hash matches one saved in database. It may come in handy during development.

* `init --keep-schemas` flag makes DipDup preserve contract JSONSchemas. Usually, they are removed after generating typeclasses with `datamodel-codegen`, but you can keep them to convert to other formats or troubleshoot codegen issues.

### Built-in `dipdup_head_status` view and REST endpoint

DipDup maintains several internal models to keep its state. As Hasura generates GraphQL queries and REST endpoints for those models, you can use them for monitoring. However, some SaaS monitoring solutions can only check whether an HTTP response contains a specific word or not. For such cases `dipdup_head_status` view was added - a simplified representation of `dipdup_head` table. It returns `OK` when datasource received head less than two minutes ago and `OUTDATED` otherwise. Latter means that something's stuck, either DipDup (e.g., because of database deadlock) or TzKT instance. Or maybe the whole Tezos blockchain, but in that case, you have problems bigger than indexing.

```shell
$ curl "http://127.0.0.1:41000/api/rest/dipdupHeadStatus?name=https%3A%2F%2Fapi.tzkt.io" 
{"dipdupHeadStatus":[{"status":"OUTDATED"}]}%
```

Note that `dipdup_head` update may be delayed during sync even if the `--early-realtime` flag is enabled, so don't rely exclusively on this endpoint.

## Changelog

### Added

* cli: Added `schema init` command to initialize database schema.
* cli: Added `--force` flag to `hasura configure` command.
* codegen: Added support for subpackages inside callback directories.
* hasura: Added `dipdup_head_status` view and REST endpoint.
* index: Added an ability to skip historical data while synchronizing `big_map` indexes.
* metadata: Added `metadata` datasource.
* tzkt: Added `get_big_map` and `get_contract_big_maps` datasource methods.
