# 4.2.0

## What's new

### `ipfs` datasource

While working with contract/token metadata, a typical scenario is to fetch it from IPFS. DipDup now has a separate datasource to perform such requests.

```yaml
datasources:
  ipfs:
    kind: ipfs
    url: https://ipfs.io/ipfs
```

You can use this datasource within any callback. Output is either JSON or binary data.

```python
ipfs = ctx.get_ipfs_datasource('ipfs')

file = await ipfs.get('QmdCz7XGkBtd5DFmpDPDN3KFRmpkQHJsDgGiG16cgVbUYu')
assert file[:4].decode()[1:] == 'PDF'

file = await ipfs.get('QmSgSC7geYH3Ae4SpUHy4KutxqNH9ESKBGXoCN4JQdbtEz/package.json')
assert file['name'] == 'json-buffer'
```

You can tune HTTP connection parameters with the `http` config field, just like any other datasource.

### Sending arbitrary requests

DipDup datasources do not cover all available methods of underlying APIs. Let's say you want to fetch protocol of the chain you're currently indexing from TzKT:

```python
tzkt = ctx.get_tzkt_datasource('tzkt_mainnet')
protocol_json = await tzkt.request(
    method='get',
    url='v1/protocols/current',
    cache=False,
    weigth=1,  # ratelimiter leaky-bucket drops
)
assert protocol_json['hash'] == 'PtHangz2aRngywmSRGGvrcTyMbbdpWdpFKuS4uMWxg2RaH9i1qx'
```

Datasource HTTP connection parameters (ratelimit, backoff, etc.) are applied on every request.

### Firing hooks outside of the current transaction

When configuring a hook, you can instruct DipDup to wrap it in a single database transaction:

```yaml
hooks:
  my_hook:
    callback: my_hook
    atomic: True
```

Until now, such hooks could only be fired according to `jobs` schedules, but not from a handler or another atomic hook using `ctx.fire_hook` method. This limitation is eliminated - use `wait` argument to escape the current transaction:

```python
async def handler(ctx: HandlerContext, ...) -> None:
    await ctx.fire_hook('atomic_hook', wait=False)
```

### Spin up a new project with a single command

Cookiecutter is an excellent `jinja2` wrapper to initialize hello-world templates of various frameworks and toolkits interactively. Install `python-cookiecutter` package systemwide, then call:

```shell
cookiecutter https://github.com/dipdup-net/cookiecutter-dipdup
```

### Advanced scheduler configuration

DipDup utilizes `apscheduler` library to run hooks according to schedules in `jobs` config section. In the following example, `apscheduler` spawns up to three instances of the same job every time the trigger is fired, even if previous runs are in progress:

```yaml
advanced:
  scheduler:
    apscheduler.job_defaults.coalesce: True
    apscheduler.job_defaults.max_instances: 3
```

See [`apscheduler` docs](https://apscheduler.readthedocs.io/en/stable/userguide.html#configuring-the-scheduler) for details.

Note that you can't use executors from `apscheduler.executors.pool` module - `ConfigurationError` exception raised then. If you're into multiprocessing, I'll explain why in the next paragraph.

### About the present and future of multiprocessing

It's impossible to use `apscheduler` pool executors with hooks because `HookContext` is not pickle-serializable. So, they are forbidden now in `advanced.scheduler` config. However, thread/process pools can come in handy in many situations, and it would be nice to have them in DipDup context. For now, I can suggest implementing custom commands as a workaround to perform any resource-hungry tasks within them. Put the following code in `<project>/cli.py`:

```python
from contextlib import AsyncExitStack

import asyncclick as click
from dipdup.cli import cli, cli_wrapper
from dipdup.config import DipDupConfig
from dipdup.context import DipDupContext
from dipdup.utils.database import tortoise_wrapper


@cli.command(help='Run heavy calculations')
@click.pass_context
@cli_wrapper
async def do_something_heavy(ctx):
    config: DipDupConfig = ctx.obj.config
    url = config.database.connection_string
    models = f'{config.package}.models'

    async with AsyncExitStack() as stack:
        await stack.enter_async_context(tortoise_wrapper(url, models))
        ...

if __name__ == '__main__':
    cli(prog_name='dipdup', standalone_mode=False)  # type: ignore
```

Then use `python -m <project>.cli` instead of `dipdup` as an entrypoint. Now you can call `do-something-heavy` like any other `dipdup` command. `dipdup.cli:cli` group handles arguments and config parsing, graceful shutdown, and other boilerplate. The rest is on you; use `dipdup.dipdup:DipDup.run` as a reference. And keep in mind that Tortoise ORM is not thread-safe. I aim to implement `ctx.pool_apply` and `ctx.pool_map` methods to execute code in pools with _magic_ within existing DipDup hooks, but no ETA yet.

That's all, folks! As always, your feedback is very welcome 🤙
