# 5.0.0

## ⚠ Breaking Changes

* Python versions 3.8 and 3.9 are no longer supported.
* `bcd` datasource has been removed.
* Two internal tables were added, `dipdup_contract_metadata` and `dipdup_token_metadata`.
* Some methods of `tzkt` datasource have changed their signatures and behavior.
* Dummy `advanced.oneshot` config flag has been removed.
* Dummy `schema approve --hashes` command flag has been removed.
* `docker init` command has been removed.
* `ReindexingReason` enumeration items have been changed.

## Migration from 4.x

* Ensure that you have a `python = "^3.10"` dependency in `pyproject.toml`.
* Remove `bcd` datasources from config. Use `metadata` datasource instead to fetch contract and token metadata.
* Update `tzkt` datasource method calls as described below.
* Run the `dipdup schema approve` command on every database you use with 5.0.0.
* Update usage of `ReindexingReason` enumeration if needed.

## What's New

### Process realtime messages with lag

Chain reorgs have occurred much recently since the Ithaca protocol reached mainnet. The preferable way to deal with rollbacks is the `on_rollback` hook. But if the logic of your indexer is too complex, you can buffer an arbitrary number of levels before processing to avoid reindexing.

```yaml
datasources:
  tzkt_mainnet:
    kind: tzkt
    url: https://api.tzkt.io
    buffer_size: 2
```

DipDup tries to remove backtracked operations from the buffer instead emitting rollback. Ithaca guarantees operations finality after one block and blocks finality after two blocks, so to completely avoid reorgs, `buffer_size` should be 2.

### BCD API takedown

Better Call Dev API was officially deprecated in February. Thus, it's time to go for `bcd` datasource. In DipDup, it served the only purpose of fetching contract and token metadata. Now there's a separate `metadata` datasource which do the same thing but better. If you have used `bcd` datasource for custom requests, see [How to migrate from BCD to TzKT API](https://baking-bad.org/blog/2022/02/15/migrating-from-bcd-api-to-tzkt-api/) article.

### TzKT batch request pagination

Historically, most `TzktDatasource` methods had a page iteration logic hidden inside. The quantity of items returned by TzKT in a single request is configured in `HTTPConfig.batch_size` and defaulted to 10.000. Before this release, three requests would be performed by the `get_big_map` method to fetch 25.000 big map keys, leading to performance degradation and extensive memory usage.

| affected method | response size in 4.x | response size in 5.x |
|-|-|-|
| `get_similar_contracts` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_originated_contracts` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_big_map` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_contract_big_maps` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_quotes` | first `datasource.request_limit` | max. `datasource.request_limit` |

All paginated methods now behave the same way. You can either iterate over pages manually or use `iter_...` helpers.

```python
datasource = ctx.get_tzkt_datasource('tzkt_mainnet')
batch_iter = datasource.iter_big_map(
    big_map_id=big_map_id,
    level=last_level,
)
async for key_batch in batch_iter:
    for key in key_batch:
        ...
```

### Metadata interface for TzKT integration

Starting with 5.0 you can store and expose custom contract and token metadata in the same format DipDup Metadata service does for TZIP-compatible metadata.

Enable this feature with `advanced.metadata_interface` flag, then update metadata in any callback:

```python
await ctx.update_contract_metadata(
    network='mainnet',
    address='KT1...',
    metadata={'foo': 'bar'},
)
```

Metadata stored in `dipdup_contract_metadata` and `dipdup_token_metadata` tables and available via GraphQL and REST APIs.

### Prometheus integration

This version introduces initial Prometheus integration. It could help you set up monitoring, find performance issues in your code, and so on. To enable this integration, add the following lines to the config:

```yaml
prometheus:
  host: 0.0.0.0
```

> 💡 **SEE ALSO**
>
> * {{ #summary config/prometheus.md }}
> * {{ #summary deployment/prometheus.md }}

## Changes since 4.2.7

### Added

* config: Added `custom` section to store arbitrary user data.
* metadata: Added `metadata_interface` feature flag to expose metadata in TzKT format.
* prometheus: Added ability to expose Prometheus metrics.
* tzkt: Added ability to process realtime messages with lag.
* tzkt: Added missing fields to the `HeadBlockData` model.
* tzkt: Added `iter_...` methods to iterate over item batches.

### Fixed

* config: Fixed default SQLite path (`:memory:`).
* prometheus: Fixed invalid metric labels.
* tzkt: Fixed pagination in several getter methods.
* tzkt: Fixed data loss when `skip_history` option is enabled.
* tzkt: Fixed crash in methods that do not support cursor pagination.
* tzkt: Fixed possible OOM while calling methods that support pagination.
* tzkt: Fixed possible data loss in `get_originations` and `get_quotes` methods.

### Changed

* tzkt: Added `offset` and `limit` arguments to all methods that support pagination.

### Removed

* bcd: Removed `bcd` datasource and config section.
* cli: Removed `docker init` command.
* cli: Removed dummy `schema approve --hashes` flag.
* config: Removed dummy `advanced.oneshot` flag.

### Performance

* dipdup: Use fast `orjson` library instead of built-in `json` where possible.
