# 5.1.0

## Migration from 5.0 (optional)

* Run `init` command. Now you have two conflicting hooks: `on_rollback` and `on_index_rollback`. Follow the guide below to perform the migration. `ConflictingHooksError` exception will be raised until then.

## What's New

### Per-index rollback hook

In this release, we continue to improve the rollback-handling experience, which became much more important since the Ithaca protocol reached mainnet. Let's briefly recap how DipDup currently processes chain reorgs _before_ calling a rollback hook:

1. If the `buffer_size` option of a TzKT datasource is set to a non-zero value, and there are enough data messages buffered when a rollback occurs, data is just dropped from the buffer, and indexing continues.
2. If all indexes in the config are `operation` ones, we can attempt to process a single-level rollback. All operations from rolled back block must be presented in the next one for rollback to succeed. If some operations are missing, the `on_rollback` hook will be called as usual.
3. Finally, we can safely ignore indexes with a level lower than the rollback target. The index level is updated either on synchronization or when at least one related operation or bigmap diff has been extracted from a realtime message.

If none of these tricks have worked, we can't process a rollback without custom logic. Here's where changes begin. Before this release, every project contained the `on_rollback` hook, which receives `datasource: IndexDatasource` argument and from/to levels. Even if your deployment has thousands of indexes and only a couple of them are affected by rollback, you weren't able to easily find out which ones.

Now `on_rollback` hook is deprecated and superseded by the `on_index_rollback` one. Choose one of the following options:

* You haven't touched the `on_rollback` hook since project creation. Run `init` command and remove `hooks/on_rollback` and `sql/on_rollback` directories in project root. Default action (reindexing) has not changed.
* You have some custom logic in `on_rollback` hook and want to leave it as-is for now. You can ignore introduced changes at least till the next major release.
* You have implemented per-datasource rollback logic and are ready to switch to the per-index one. Run `init`, move your code to the `on_index_rollback` hook and delete `on_rollback` one. Note, you can access rolled back datasource via `index.datasource`.

### Token transfer index

Sometimes implementing an `operation` index is overkill for a specific task. An existing alternative is to use a `big_map` index to process only the diffs of selected big map paths. However, you still need to have a separate index for each contract of interest, which is very resource-consuming. A widespread case is indexing FA1.2/FA2 token contracts. So, this release introduces a new `token_transfer` index:

```yaml
indexes:
  transfers:
    kind: token_transfer
    datasource: tzkt
    handlers:
      - callback: transfers
```

The `TokenTransferData` object is passed to the handler on each operation, containing only information enough to process a token transfer.

### `config env` command to generate env-files

Generally, It's good to separate a project config from deployment parameters, and DipDup has multiple options to achieve this. First of all, multiple configs can be chained successively, overriding top-level sections. Second, the DipDup config can contain docker-compose-style environment variable declarations. Let's say your config contains the following content:

```yaml
database:
  kind: postgres
  host: db
  port: 5432
  user: ${POSTGRES_USER:-dipdup}
  password: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD:-changeme}
  database: ${POSTGRES_DB:-dipdup}
```

You can generate an env-file to use with this exact config:

```bash
$ dipdup -c dipdup.yml -c dipdup.docker.yml config env
POSTGRES_USER=dipdup
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=changeme
POSTGRES_DB=dipdup
```

The environment of your current shell is also taken into account:

```bash
$ POSTGRES_DB=foobar dipdup -c dipdup.yml -c dipdup.docker.yml config env
POSTGRES_USER=dipdup
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=changeme
POSTGRES_DB=foobar  # <- set from current env
```

Use `-f <filename>` option to save output on disk instead of printing to stdout. After you have modified the env-file according to your needs, you can apply it the way which is more convenient to you:

With dipdup `--env-file / -e` option:

```bash
dipdup -e prod.env <...> run
```

When using docker-compose:

```yaml
services:
  indexer:
    ...
    env_file: prod.env
```

### Keeping framework up-to-date

A bunch of new tags is now pushed to the Docker Hub on each release in addition to the `X.Y.Z` one: `X.Y` and `X`. That way, you can stick to a specific release without the risk of leaving a minor/major update unattended (friends don't let friends use `latest` ðŸ˜‰). The `-pytezos` flavor is also available for each tag.

```Dockerfile
FROM dipdup/dipdup:5.1
...
```

In addition, DipDup will poll GitHub for new releases on each command which executes reasonably long and print a warning when running an outdated version. You can disable these checks with `advanced.skip_version_check` flag.

Pro tip: you can also enable notifications on the GitHub repo page with _ðŸ‘ Watch -> Custom -> tick Releases -> Apply_ to never miss a fresh DipDup release.

## Changelog

See full 5.1.0 changelog [here](../CHANGELOG.md#510---2022-05-12).
