# 6.0.0

## ⚠ Breaking Changes

- Project models in `models.py` must be subclassed from `dipdup.models.Model` instead of `tortoise.Model`.
- The deprecated `on_rollback` event hook has been removed in favor of `on_index_rollback`.
- HTTP datasources no longer use caching. `cache show` and `cache clear` commands have been removed. `http.cache` config flag has been removed.
- `--logging-config` option has been removed. Use the `logging` config section or set up logging manually.
- Feature flag options of `run` command have been removed. Use the `advanced` config section instead.

## Migration from 5.x

- Replace `tortoise.Model` import with `dipdup.models.Model` in your `models.py` module.
- Remove the `on_rollback` event hook if it still persists in your project. Ensure that `on_index_rollback.py` contains `ctx.rollback` call, or remove it and call `dipdup init`.
- If you have used `buffer_size` config option, remove it to use database-level rollbacks.
- Run `schema approve` command with every schema you want to use with DipDup 6.0.  

## What's New

### Seamless database-level rollbacks

The era of handling chain reorgs manually is finally over! Now when DipDup receives a reorg message from TzKT it just rewinds a database to the previous state reverting changes in backtracked blocks level by level. To make this possible, DipDup catches all database modifications and saves diffs in a separate table, `dipdup_model_update` (you don't need to access it directly).

```python
# INSERT saved with no data, just drop this row on reorg.
trader = Trader(name='Alice', balance=100, active=True)
await trader.save()

# UPDATE saved with data old values to set them on reorg.
# Diff: {'balance': 100}
trader.balance = 200
await trader.save() 

# DELETE saved with full copy of data. On reorg this row will be recreated with the same PK.
# Diff: {'name': 'Alice', 'balance': 200, 'active': True}
await trader.delete()
```

Bulk class methods like `bulk_insert` and `bulk_update` are supported too. However, for raw queries, DipDup uses prefetching (additional SELECT) to save original values. So, `ReallyHugeTable.filter().delete()` will create efficiently a full copy of the table in `dipdup_model_update`. Most likely you will never need to perform such queries in handlers, but keep that detail in mind.

Since the Ithacanet protocol, only two last blocks may be backtracked. We do not need to store older diffs, they are removed automatically. If you need to keep more levels or disable this feature, adjust `rollback_depth` config option.

```yaml
advanced:
  rollback_depth: 2  # 0 to disable
```

`on_index_rollback` event hook now looks like this:

```python
from dipdup.context import HookContext
from dipdup.index import Index


async def on_index_rollback(
    ctx: HookContext,
    index: Index,
    from_level: int,
    to_level: int,
) -> None:
    await ctx.execute_sql('on_index_rollback')
    await ctx.rollback(
        index=index.name,
        from_level=from_level,
        to_level=to_level,
    )
```

TzKT `buffer_size` option remains available, but it's not required to handle chain reorgs anymore.

### Crash dumps and automatic reporting

Now when DipDup catches unhandled exceptions, a crash dump will be saved to the temporary directory.

```text
dipdup.exceptions.CallbackError: An error occured during callback execution
________________________________________________________________________________

`demo_tzbtc.hooks.on_restart` callback execution failed:

  Exception: 

Eliminate the reason of failure and restart DipDup.
________________________________________________________________________________

Crashdump saved to `/tmp/dipdup/crashdumps/veb7kz07.json`
```

This JSON file is the same data Sentry collects on crashes if integration is enabled. It includes a stack trace, local variables of each frame, and other information useful when investigating a crash. Attach this file when sending bug reports to GitHub Issues.

When preparing a crash dump Sentry can detect sensitive information like database passwords in the crash dump and remove it from the report. So it's generally safe to share the crash dump with the developers. Now you can also send these crash reports automatically to the Baking Bad team.

Your privacy matters; **crash reporting is disabled by default**. Simulate a crash with a random exception and inspect a crash dump before enabling this option to ensure that report doesn't contain secrets. Then add the following lines to your config:

```yaml
advanced:
  crash_reporting: True
```

## Changes since 5.2.5

### Added

- cli: Added `config export --full` flag to resolve templates before printing config.
- config: Added `advanced.crash_reporting` flag to enable reporting crashes to Baking Bad.
- config: Added `advanced.rollback_depth` field, a number of levels to keep in a database for rollback.
- context: Added `rollback` method to perform database rollback.
- database: Added an internal `ModelUpdate` model to store the latest database changes.
- dipdup: Save Sentry crashdump in `/tmp/dipdup/crashdumps/XXXXXXX.json` on a crash.

### Fixed

- config: Do not perform env variable substitution in commented-out lines.
- prometheus: Fixed updating `dipdup_index_handlers_matched_total` metric.

### Changed

- codegen: `on_index_rollback` hook calls `ctx.rollback` by default.
- database: Project models must be subclassed from `dipdup.models.Model`

### Removed

- cli: `--logging-config` option is removed.
- cli: All `run` command flags are removed. Use the `advanced` section of the config.
- cli: `cache show` and `cache clear` commands are removed.
- config: `http.cache` flag is removed.
- hooks: Removed deprecated `on_rollback` hook.
- index: Do not try to avoid single-level rollbacks by comparing operation hashes.
