---
title: 7.1.0
description: DipDup 7.1 release notes
---

# Release Notes: 7.1

Welcome, developers!

After maybe-too-long awaited 7.0 stable release we decided to establish shorter and more predictable release cycle. So, expect new DipDup versions to arrive more frequently, but maybe be less groundbreaking. Today we're releasing DipDup 7.1 with new index kind, CLI options, and lots of small improvements. Let's dive in!

## Indexing Tezos token balanses

Starting with 7.1 a new index kind `tezos.tzkt.token_balances` is available. It allows indexing token balances of Tezos contracts compatible with [FA1.2](https://gitlab.com/tzip/tzip/-/blob/master/proposals/tzip-7/README.md) or [FA2](https://gitlab.com/tzip/tzip/-/blob/master/proposals/tzip-12/tzip-12.md) standards. This index is similar to existing `tezos.tzkt.token_transfers`, but provides only the current balances skipping historical data. In cases when you don't need the history of changes, this index is much more efficient.

```yaml [dipdup.yaml]
spec_version: 2.0
package: demo_token_balances

contracts:
  tzbtc_mainnet:
    kind: tezos
    address: KT1PWx2mnDueood7fEmfbBDKx1D9BAnnXitn
    typename: tzbtc

datasources:
  tzkt:
    kind: tezos.tzkt
    url: https://api.tzkt.io

indexes:
  tzbtc_holders_mainnet:
    kind: tezos.tzkt.token_balances
    datasource: tzkt
    handlers:
      - callback: on_balance_update
        contract: tzbtc_mainnet
```

## SQL helpers to manage database schema

Two new SQL functions were added to the schema: `dipdup_wipe` and `dipdup_approve`. These helpers are equivalent to `schema wipe` and `schema approve` CLI commands, but can be used directly in SQL queries.

```sql
SELECT dipdup_approve('public');

-- WARNING: This action is irreversible! All indexed data will be lost!
SELECT dipdup_wipe('public');
```

Please note that `dipdup_wipe` function doesn't support preserving immune tables.

DipDup has lots of tools to work with SQL like parameterized scripts, queries, and more. Visit the [Advanced SQL](../5.advanced/3.sql.md) page to learn more.

## More `config env` command options

Managing environment variables could be a pain, still it's an important part of a modern 12-factor application. Try to keep your project config completely environment-agnostic to make deploy easier and ensure secrets are safe. This release brings a few new options to the `config env` command to make it easier to work with environment variables.

Compose stack definitions in `deploy` package directory include environment variables from `.env` files (generated with `config env` command without arguments). New `--compose, -c` flag also allows exporting config variables in Compose format. Copy necessary strings from the output to the `environment` section of the service definition and you're good to go.

```shell [Terminal]
$ dipdup config env --compose
services:
  dipdup:
    environment:
      - API_KEY=${API_KEY}
      - API_URL=${API_URL:-https://api.example.com}
```

`--internal, -i` flag allows including internal variables (with `DIPDUP_` prefix) in the command output. All of them are optional and rarely needed, but very useful for debugging. See the [Feature Flags](../5.advanced/2.feature-flags.md) page for the full list of internal variables.

```shell [Terminal]
$ dipdup config env --internal
DIPDUP_CI=
DIPDUP_DEBUG=
DIPDUP_DOCKER=
DIPDUP_NEXT=
DIPDUP_REPLAY_PATH=
DIPDUP_TEST=
```

You could notice a new variable here, `DIPDUP_DEBUG`. Setting it to true will increase logging verbosity (equal to `logging: debug` in config) and enable some additional checks. Make sure that this flag is set if you're gathering logs for a bug report.

Finally, `--unsafe` flag allows exporting environment variables from the current shell session. Missing short option is intentional to prevent accidental usage. Missing example output here is also intentional, because it's, you know, unsafe to share your secrets. Don't do that.

## Improved base template

- pdm scripts.
- replay files

We ship basic QA tools.

```shell
$ pdm run -l
╭────────┬───────────┬──────────────────────────────────╮
│ Name   │ Type      │ Description                      │
├────────┼───────────┼──────────────────────────────────┤
│ all    │ composite │ Run all checks                   │
│ format │ composite │ Format code with isort and black │
│ image  │ cmd       │ Build Docker image               │
│ lint   │ composite │ Check code with ruff and mypy    │
╰────────┴───────────┴──────────────────────────────────╯
```

Integrate into CI (example action)

Here's a minimal 

```yaml [.github/workflows/test.yml]
      - name: Install PDM
        run: pipx install pdm

      - name: Set up Python
        uses: actions/setup-python@main
        with:
          python-version: '3.11'
          cache: 'pip'

      - name: Install project dependencies
        run: pdm install

      - name: Run all checks
        run: pdm all
```

To update pyproject.toml in existing project.

Limit the scope of `init` command.

...


`dipdup init --force pyproject.toml`

include replay