---
title: 7.5.0
description: DipDup 7.5 release notes
---

# Release Notes: 7.5

We are happy to announce DipDup 7.5! This release focuses on improving compatibility with various EVM blockchains, performance improvements, and bug fixes.

DipDup has been tested with many EVM networks, both with Subsquid and node datasources. Check out the [EVM networks](../5.advanced/6.evm-networks.md) page to see the list of supported networks and their configuration examples.

New config option `http.polling_interval` allows setting the interval between polling requests. This setting applies only to some datasources in specific cases. For example, when using the `evm.subsquid` datasource without nodes attached or the `evm.node` datasource without WebSocket realtime subscriptions.

A bunch of performance improvements have been made in this release. DipDup now indexes EVM chains faster, collects more metrics for memory caches, and is less hungry for resources overall.

The Hasura adapter now supports the `bulk` request type to apply table customizations faster and organize custom metadata files more conveniently.

Finally, DipDup 6.5, the stable release branch, has reached end-of-life. 6.5.16 is the last release in this branch. Please, follow the [7.0 Migration Guide](../9.release-notes/6.v7.0.md#migration-guide) to upgrade to the latest version.

## Changes since 7.4

### Added

- config: Added `http.polling_interval` option to set the interval between polling requests (some datasources).
- hasura: Allow `bulk` request type in custom metadata files.

### Fixed

- abi.etherscan: Raise `AbiNotAvailableError` when contract is not verified.
- cli: Fixed incorrect indexer status logging.
- evm.node: Fixed default ratelimit sleep time being too high.
- evm.node: Fixed memory leak when using realtime subscriptions.
- evm.node: Fixed processing chain reorgs.
- evm.node: Fixed updating `dipdup_head` table when head block is received.
- evm.node: Respect `http.batch_size` when fetching block headers.
- evm.subsquid.transactions: Fixed issue with `node_only` flag ignored.
- tezos.tzkt.operations: Fixed crash when handler definition contains optional items.

### Performance

- evm.subsquid: Dynamically adjust the batch size when syncing with node.
- hasura: Apply table customizations in a single request.
- performance: Collect hit/miss stats for cached models.
- performance: Decrease main loop and node polling intervals.
- performance: Drop caches when all indexes have reached realtime.

{{ #include 9.release-notes/_footer.md }}
