---
title: 7.2.0
description: DipDup 7.2 release notes
---

# Release Notes: 7.2

We're glad to announce DipDup 7.2! This release brings Etherlink smart rollup compatibility, API for managing indexes in runtime, and a bunch of minor improvements.

## Indexing Tezos Etherlink smart rollups

Etherlink is an EVM-compatible smart rollup, which prioritizes fair ordering of transactions, low latency and security.

Smart rollups are Tezos’ permissionless L2 scaling solution. They are WASM applications, providing versatility in what language you write them in. You can learn more in [Etherlink docs](https://docs.etherlink.com/welcome/what-is-etherlink)

Since version 7.2 you can index Etherlink smart rollups like regular Tezos contracts. Choose `demo_etherlink` template when creating a new project:

```yaml [dipdup.yaml]
{{ #include ../src/demo_etherlink/dipdup.yaml }}
```

Etherlink rollups' addresses start with `sr1` prefix instead of `KT1`, and entrypoint is always `default`. If you omit entrypoint in the operation pattern, the transaction will be treated as untyped.

See the [tezos.tzkt.operations](../2.indexes/5.tezos_tzkt_operations.md) page for more details.

## API to add indexes in runtime

One of the cool features of DipDup is that you can add indexes in runtime using `ctx.add_contract/add_index` methods from any callback. Now a basic HTTP API is available for the same purpose. To use it, add `api` section to your config:

```yaml [dipdup.yaml]
api:
  host: 127.0.0.1
  port: 46339  # dial INDEX 😎
```

Now you can use your favorite HTTP client to manage DipDup:

```shell
# Add contract
curl 127.0.0.1:46339/add_contract -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"kind":"tezos", "name": "LB", "typename": "dex" "address": "KT1TxqZ8QtKvLu3V3JH7Gx58n7Co8pgtpQU5"}'

# Add index from the template
curl 127.0.0.1:46339/add_index -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"template":"dex_template", "name": "LB_index", "values": {"contract": "LB"}}'

# Check how DipDup is doing
curl 127.0.0.1:46339/performance
```

See the [API reference](../7.references/5.api.md) for more details.

## Other improvements

`make` is back! After gathering feedback from the community we decided to return `Makefile` to the base template, but _make_ it package manager-agnostic. Instead, when creating a new project DipDup suggests choosing a package manager from PDM/Poetry/None (sets `package_manager` field in `replay.yaml` config). No action is required for existing projects, but you can run `dipdup init --base [--force]` to update the project base.

Finally, performance. Indexing EVM events with node RPC (`evm.node` datasource) has become faster.  Node RPC is used only for the "last mile" - fetching blocks not yet in Subsquid Archives API - and realtime subscriptions, so it's not a big deal, but still nice to have. Finally, typeclass generation (with `datamodel-codegen`) is also faster now, and resulting classes use `X | Y` union syntax when possible.

{{ #include 9.release-notes/_footer.md }}
