---
title: 8.0.0b2
description: DipDup 8.0 release notes
---

# Release Notes: 8.0

::banner{type="warning"}
This page describes pre-release version of DipDup. API and features are subject to change.
::

Welcome to DipDup 8.0 release notes! In this major release, we continue expanding DipDup's capabilities, improving indexing performance and developer experience. Key highlights of this release are:

- Starknet support 🐺
- Updated Python 3.12 environment
- New config specification
- Useful CLI commands, tunables and other QoL improvements

## GM, Starknet users

[Starknet](https://docs.starknet.io/) is a permissionless zero-knowledge (ZK) rollup that operates on top of Ethereum, enabling dApps to achieve massive computational scale without compromising on Ethereum’s composability and security.

We welcome Starknet to the large family of DipDup-supported networks! DipDup 8.0 introduces a new index kind `starknet.events` and a new datasource `starknet.subsquid` to work with Starknet events. More datasources and index kinds will be added soon.

Starknet contracts are written in [Cairo](https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo), a specialized programming language. It's not EVM-compatible, but many concepts are similar. But as a DipDup user, you don't need to know the difference in detail to start working with Starknet. Just add the index definition to your project, place the contract ABI to `abi/<typename>/cairo_abi.json` and DipDup will generate Python types and handler stubs for you. You can use [Starkscan](https://starkscan.co/contract/0x068f5c6a61780768455de69077e07e89787839bf8166decfbf92b645209c0fb8#class-code-history) explorer to get the ABI and other information about the contract.

To start building your indexer, run `dipdup new` and select the `demo_starknet_events` project as a template.

## Updated Python 3.12 environment

One of the DipDup features is a unified Python environment for all projects to simplify project deployment and maintenance. DipDup 8.0 indexers now run on Python 3.12 bringing new language features and performance improvements to the table. Core dependencies have been updated to the latest versions. Notable updates include:

- pydantic 2.7 with significantly faster (de)serialization and powerful validators.
- tortoise-orm 0.21.2 with better Pydantic integration and a bunch of bugfixes and optimizations.
- web3 6.19 with the latest EIP and RPC changes.

See the changelog for a full list. One of the side effects of this update is a higher and more consistent indexing throughput. We do not yet have a proper benchmarking suite, but in vivo tests show an average performance improvement of 10-20%. Actual performance depends on the project and the network being indexed. We're still far from the fastest indexers in the competition, but making progress.

## New config specification

DipDup 8.0 introduces a new config specification. Previously, every index definition was linked to a single "index datasource", which in turn could be linked to one or more complimentary ones. This approach was limiting in terms of flexibility and extensibility. And also confusing, since Subsquid and node RPC datasources can be used interchangeably, despite the significant difference in the indexing speed.

In spec version 3.0 index can have any number of attached datasources, DipDup will choose the most suitable one for each stage. If multiple node datasources are attached the random one will be chosen for each request for load balancing purposes. When applicable, DipDup will respect the order of datasources in the config file.

Index kinds were renamed to reflect these changes and now consist of two parts, network and data type, omitting the datasource part.

```yaml
spec_version: 3.0  # <- was `2.0`
package: demo_evm_events

indexes:
  eth_usdt_events:
    kind: evm.events  # <- was `evm.subsquid.events`
    datasources:  # <- replacing `datasource` key
      - subsquid
      - etherscan
      - evm_node
      - another_evm_node
```

## Migration from 7.5

Existing projects require semi-automatic migration. Please follow the steps below to update your project to DipDup 8.0.

<!-- TODO: Remove arguments after dash and subdomain with a stable release -->
1. Make sure you have Python 3.12 installed.
2. Update the current DipDup installation. Run `dipdup self uninstall`, then `curl -Lsf https://dev.dipdup.io/install.py | python3.12 - --pre`.
3. Enter the project directory, but do not activate the virtual environment. Run the `dipdup migrate` command. It will update your config files and generate a new package structure. Modules requiring manual migration will be moved to `<module>.old` path; leave them as is for now. Review and commit the changes.
4. Run `dipdup init --base --force` command to update pyproject.toml and other metadata files. Recreate and enter the virtual environment. For PDM run `rm -rf .venv pdm.lock && pdm venv create python3.12 && pdm install && $(pdm venv activate)`. For Poetry run `rm -rf .venv poetry.lock && poetry install && poetry shell`. Review and commit the changes.
5. Move the callback function bodies from `<module>.old` to `<module>` files. Review and commit the changes.
6. Run `make all` to check if everything works as expected. Fix any errors and commit the changes.

<!-- TODO: Update dates -->
DipDup 7.5 release is going to be supported for 6 months after the stable release of 8.0. During this period, we will provide bug fixes and security updates.

{{ #include 9.release-notes/_8.0_changelog.md }}
{{ #include 9.release-notes/_footer.md }}
