---
title: 7.2.0
description: DipDup 7.2 release notes
---

# Release Notes: 7.2

We're glad to announce DipDup 7.2! This release brings Etherlink smart rollup compatibility, API for managing indexes in runtime, and a bunch of minor improvements.

## Indexing Tezos Etherlink smart rollups

Etherlink is an EVM-compatible smart rollup, which prioritizes fair ordering of transactions, low latency and security.

Smart rollups are Tezos’ permissionless L2 scaling solution. They are WASM applications, providing versatility in what language you write them in. You can learn more in [Etherlink docs](https://docs.etherlink.com/)

Since version 7.2 you can index Etherlink smart rollups like regular Tezos contracts. Choose `demo_etherlink` template when creating a new project:

```yaml [dipdup.yaml]
spec_version: 2.0
package: demo_etherlink

datasources:
  tzkt:
    kind: tezos.tzkt
    url: ${TZKT_URL:-https://api.tzkt.io}

contracts:
  controller:
    kind: tezos
    address: KT1Ax1oGGjooakyYJvtrX3q5zxRwYv6EAeC2
    typename: controller
  rollup:
    kind: tezos
    address: sr1SW7VtD6xbSAEoRk8LXewr3igfWjBx7FPB
    typename: rollup

indexes:
  rollup_operations:
    kind: tezos.tzkt.operations
    datasource: tzkt
    contracts:
      - controller
      - rollup
    handlers:
      - callback: on_rollup_call
        pattern:
          - type: transaction
            destination: controller
            entrypoint: default
            alias: controller_default
          - type: transaction
            destination: rollup
            entrypoint: default
            alias: rollup_default
```

Etherlink rollups' addresses start with the `sr1` prefix instead of `KT1`, and an entrypoint is always `default`. If you omit an entrypoint in the operation pattern, the transaction will be treated as untyped.

See the [tezos.tzkt.operations](../2.indexes/6.tezos_tzkt_operations.md) page for more details.

## API to add indexes in runtime

One of the cool features of DipDup is that you can add indexes in runtime using `ctx.add_contract/add_index` methods from any callback. Now a basic HTTP API is available for the same purpose. To use it, add `api` section to your config:

```yaml [dipdup.yaml]
api:
  host: 127.0.0.1
  port: 46339  # dial INDEX 😎
```

Now you can use your favorite HTTP client to manage DipDup:

```shell
# Add contract
curl 127.0.0.1:46339/add_contract -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"kind":"tezos", "name": "LB", "typename": "dex" "address": "KT1TxqZ8QtKvLu3V3JH7Gx58n7Co8pgtpQU5"}'

# Add index from the template
curl 127.0.0.1:46339/add_index -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"template":"dex_template", "name": "LB_index", "values": {"contract": "LB"}}'

# Check how DipDup is doing
curl 127.0.0.1:46339/performance
```

See the [API reference](../7.references/4.api.md) for more details.

## Other improvements

`make` is back! After gathering feedback from the community we decided to return `Makefile` to the base template, but _make_ it package manager-agnostic. Instead, when creating a new project DipDup suggests choosing a package manager from PDM/Poetry/None (sets `package_manager` field in `replay.yaml` config). No action is required for existing projects, but you can run `dipdup init --base [--force]` to update the project base.

Indexing EVM events with node RPC (`evm.node` datasource) has become faster. Node RPC while inherently slow, is used only for the "last mile" indexing (fetching a few hundred latest blocks not yet in Subsquid Network API) and realtime subscriptions.

Finally, we have sped up the generation of Pydantic typeclasses with `datamodel-codegen`. Also, resulting classes use `X | Y` union syntax when possible.

## Changes since 7.1

### Added

- api: Added HTTP API to manage a running indexer.
- cli: Added `DIPDUP_CONFIG` and `DIPDUP_ENV_FILE` environment variables corresponding to `--config` and `--env-file` options.
- config: Added `http.request_timeout` option to set the total timeout for HTTP requests.
- evm.subsquid: Added Prometheus metrics required for Subsquid Cloud deployments.
- project: Added Makefile to the default project template (only for new projects).
- project: Added optional `package_manager` field to replay config.
- tezos.tzkt: Added support for Etherlink smart rollups (`sr1…` addresses).

### Fixed

- cli: Don't suppress uncaught exceptions when performance monitoring is disabled.
- codegen: Use datamodel-code-generator from the project's virtualenv.
- evm.node: Fixed an issue with realtime subscriptions which led to indexing being stuck in some cases.
- evm.node: Fixed crash on anonymous event logs during the last mile indexing.
- evm.node: Raise an exception when no realtime messages have been received in `http.connection_timeout` seconds.
- evm.subsquid: Last mile indexing is significantly faster now.
- http: Use `request_timeout` instead of `connection_timeout` for total timeout.
- install: Don't install datamodel-code-generator as a CLI tool.
- install: Respect package manager if specified in pyproject.toml.
- tezos.tzkt: Fixed an issue with approving schema after reindexing triggered by rollback.

### Performance

- evm.subsquid.events: Request logs in batches to speed up the last mile indexing.

### Security

- deps: Updated PyArrow to 14.0.1 to fix [CVE-2023-47248](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-5wvp-7f3h-6wmm)

{{ #include 9.release-notes/_footer.md }}
