<!-- markdownlint-disable first-line-h1 -->
## Changes since 7.1

### Added

- api: Added HTTP API to manage a running indexer.
- cli: Added `DIPDUP_CONFIG` and `DIPDUP_ENV_FILE` environment variables corresponding to `--config` and `--env-file` options.
- config: Added `http.request_timeout` option to set the total timeout for HTTP requests.
- evm.subsquid: Added Prometheus metrics required for Subsquid Cloud deployments.
- project: Added Makefile to the default project template (only for new projects).
- project: Added optional `package_manager` field to replay config.
- tezos.tzkt: Added support for Etherlink smart rollups (`sr1…` addresses).

### Fixed

- cli: Don't suppress uncaught exceptions when performance monitoring is disabled.
- codegen: Use datamodel-code-generator from the project's virtualenv.
- evm.node: Fixed an issue with realtime subscriptions which led to indexing being stuck in some cases.
- evm.node: Fixed crash on anonymous event logs during the last mile indexing.
- evm.node: Raise an exception when no realtime messages have been received in `http.connection_timeout` seconds.
- evm.subsquid: Last mile indexing is significantly faster now.
- http: Use `request_timeout` instead of `connection_timeout` for total timeout.
- install: Don't install datamodel-code-generator as a CLI tool.
- install: Respect package manager if specified in pyproject.toml.
- tezos.tzkt: Fixed an issue with approving schema after reindexing triggered by rollback.

### Performance

- evm.subsquid.events: Request logs in batches to speed up the last mile indexing.

### Security

- deps: Updated PyArrow to 14.0.1 to fix [CVE-2023-47248](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-5wvp-7f3h-6wmm)
