<!-- markdownlint-disable first-line-h1 -->
## Changes since 7.x

### Added

- cli: Added `--pre` flag to `self` group commands to install pre-release versions.
- cli: Added `--raw` option to `config export` command to dump config preserving the original structure.
- cli: Added `-C` option, a shorthand for `-c . -c configs/dipdup.<name>.yaml`.
- cli: Added `package verify` command to check the package consistency.
- cli: Added full project migration support for 3.0 spec.
- cli: Added spec_version 3.0 support to `migrate` command.
- config: Publish JSON schemas for config validation and autocompletion.
- database: Added `dipdup_status` view to the schema.
- env: Added `DIPDUP_JSON_LOG` environment variable to enable JSON logging.
- env: Added `DIPDUP_LOW_MEMORY` variable to reduce the size of caches and buffers.
- env: Added `DIPDUP_PACKAGE_PATH` environment variable to override discovered package path.
- package: Added built-in `batch` handler to modify higher-level indexing logic.
- starknet.events: Added `starknet.events` index kind to process Starknet events.
- starknet.node: Added Starknet node datasource for last mile indexing.
- starknet.subsquid: Added `starknet.subsquid` datasource to fetch historical data from Subsquid Archives.
- tezos.operations: Added `sr_cement` operation type to process Smart Rollup Cemented Commitments.

### Fixed

- cli: Don't save reports for successful test runs.
- cli: Don't update existing installation in `self install` command unless asked to.
- cli: Fixed `--pre` installer flag.
- cli: Fixed env files not being loaded in some commands.
- cli: Fixed errors raised when the project package is invalid.
- cli: Fixed progress estimation when there are indexes with `last_level` option set.
- cli: Import some dependencies on demand to reduce memory footprint.
- cli: Improved logging of indexer status.
- config: Allow `sentry.dsn` to be empty string.
- config: Fixed (de)serialization of hex strings in config.
- config: Fixed setting logging levels according to the config.
- database: Fixed concurrency issue when using `get_or_create` method.
- evm.events: Fixed matching logs when filtering by topic0.
- evm.events: Improve fetching event batches from node.
- evm.subsquid: Fixed typo in `iter_events` method name.
- evm: Fixed crash when contract ABI contains overloaded methods.
- install: Fixed reinstalling package when `--force` flag is used.
- models: Fixed `CachedModel` preloading.
- models: Fixed setting default value for `Meta.maxsize`.
- package: Create package in-place if cwd equals package name.
- performance: Add index name to fetcher and realtime queues.
- performance: Fixed estimation indexing speed in levels per second.
- starknet.events: Fixed filtering events by key.
- subsquid: Fixed missing entry in `dipdup_head` internal table.
- tezos.big_maps: Fixed logging status message in `skip_history` mode.
- tezos.big_maps: Respect order of handlers in `skip_history` mode.
- tezos.operations: Fixed `sr_cement` operation index subscription.
- yaml: Fixed indentation and formatting of generated YAML files.

### Changed

- api: `/performance` endpoint response format has been changed.
- config: Index configs accept `datasources` list instead of `datasource` field.
- config: Index kinds have been renamed and grouped by the network.
- config: Index template values now can be any JSON-serializable object.
- config: When filtering EVM transactions by signature, use `signature` field instead of `method`.
- context: Signatures of `fire_handler` and `fire_hook` methods have changed.
- context: `ctx.logger` is a regular `logging.Logger` instead of pre-configured `FormattedLogger`.
- deps: Python 3.12 is now required to run DipDup.
- performance: All time intervals are now measured in seconds.
- performance: Several metrics have been renamed and new ones have been added.

### Removed

- config: Removed `advanced.skip_version_check` flag; use `DIPDUP_NO_VERSION_CHECK` environment variable.
- config: `abi` index config field has been removed; add `abi.etherscan` datasource(s) to the `datasources` list instead.
- config: `node_only` index config flag has been removed; add `evm.node` datasource(s) to the `datasources` list instead.
- database: Removed `dipdup_head_status` view; use `dipdup_status` view instead.

### Performance

- database: Set `synchronous=NORMAL` and `journal_mode=WAL` pragmas for on-disk SQLite databases.

### Other

- demos: Demo projects have been renamed to reflect the new config structure.
- deps: Use `uvloop` to improve asyncio performance.
- deps: `datamodel-code-generator` updated to 0.25.
- deps: `pyarrow` updated to 16.0.
- deps: `pydantic` updated to 2.2.
- deps: `sentry-sdk` updated to 2.1.
- deps: `tortoise-orm` updated to 0.20.1.
- deps: `tortoise-orm` updated to 0.21.2.
- deps: `web3` updated to 6.18.
