# 7.0.0 Pre-release 1

_(WIP, don't read it lmao)_

Cheers, developers! Do you keep your head warm and your feet dry this crypto winter? You'd better do, cause the next season is gonna be awesome, and it would be a pity to miss smart-contracts blossom laying in bed with a cold. Ok, enough silly jokes. 7.0 release is finally ready enough for the first beta. After half a year of active development, the amount of new features is HUGE, but we hope that updated docs and lots of examples won't let you get lost. If you're updating from 6.5, keep an eye on "Migration" sections on this page.

Key highlights for this release:

- Support for EVM-compatible blockchains.
- Updated, simplier package structure.
- Powerful tools for monitoring and performance tuning.
- Flexible deployment recipes for any environment.
- More datasources, indexes and helpers.

Bigger and better like they say. Now, to the details.

## Development Focus

### EVM support

Now DipDup can index EVM-compatible blockchains receiving data from [subsquid](https://www.subsquid.io/), ABIs from [etherscan](https://etherscan.io/), and some data directly from RPC nodes. There are multiple demo projects available as examples - you can create them using `dipdup new`
<!-- NOTE:
- what are EVM, Subsquid Archives, RPC nodes
- bootstrapping EVM demo
- `abi.etherscan` datasource, manual
- node datasources, configuration
- event matching rules -->

### Performance

DipDup becoming faster with this release:

- Updated project for Python 3.11
- Introduced HTTP pre-fetching
- Numerous improvments in ORM code see [models](../1.getting-started/5.models.md?DipDup-ORM)

### Environment, scaffolding and deployment

- [Project package(docs link)](../1.getting-started/4.package.md) was significantly refactored, simplified, and prettified, notable changes are rewritten readme, consistent structure, separate deployments, and configs, rewritten ignore files for docker and git, `dipdup package tree` to debug python package
- Deploy folder with production-ready deployments, files were refactored and renamed to be more understandable and customizable
- Docker images were cleared, excess images removed, and software versions updated
- Every crash is saved as a crash report and can be accessed in easily readable form in `dipdup report`
- Command line interface got a list of small improvements to be more intuitive and correct

### Datamodel

### Miscellaneous

___

#### The crash reporting flag has been removed

First of all, Sentry integration is not affected by this change!

Opt-in `advanced.crash_reporting` flag was introduced in v6.0 to allow sending Sentry events to our public instance. We expected that the gathered reports will help us to improve DipDup stability. It turned out, the cons of this approach outweigh the pros. Very few users have enabled this feature, and most of the reports sent were not helpful. Don't get me wrong, Sentry is a great piece of software. It's just not the best fit for crash reporting when a majority of executed code is either written user or generated. Also, these circumstances increase the risk of leaking sensitive data. So, we decided to shift the focus to plaintext human-friendly crash dumps. See the next section to learn how to use them. Again, if you use Sentry, you can still use it with DipDup. We'll continue to support and improve Sentry integration; we use it in our in-house projects too.

### Miscellaneous

Event hooks are now called system hooks. All the blockchains we support have entities called events (of smart contracts), and that creates ambiguity. Nothing has changed except the name; you don't need to update your code of config.

`advanced.metadata_interface` config option has been removed. This flag allowed using `update_token_metadata` and `update_contract_metadata` methods, which are now available by default. You can remove it from the config.

__

## Migration from 6.5

### Config

- put root config inside
- `spec_version` to 2.0, package in snake_case
- rename contract kinds
- rename datasource kinds
- rename index kinds
- (a huge substitution table)
- remove `advanced.crash_reporting` Remove `advanced.crash_reporting` from your config if presented. Spin up your own.
- remove `advanced.metadata_interface`
- migrate alpine and pytezos images, see how to expand image in docs

### Package

- models to package
- update imports
- update ctx calls

### Final steps

- run dipdup init --force
- run dipdup schema wipe
