---
title: "Demos"
description: "The DipDup repository contains several minimal examples of how to use various features for real-case scenarios. Please, do not use these examples in production unmodified. We have not put a production-grade amount of effort into developing them, so they may contain flaws in indexing logic."
---

# Demo projects

<!-- TODO: More demo descriptions -->

The DipDup repository contains several minimal examples of how to use various features for real-case scenarios. Please, do not use these examples in production unmodified. We have not put a production-grade amount of effort into developing them, so they may contain flaws in indexing logic.

Some projects that started as a demo now evolved into full-fledged applications running in production. Check out [In production](2.in-production.md) page.

## TzBTC token

source: [demo_token](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/tree/next/src/demo_token)

The most basic indexer used in Quickstart. A single `operation` index to track balances of TzBTC token holders, nothing else.

## hic et nunc

source: [demo_nft_marketplace](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/tree/next/src/demo_nft_marketplace)

Indexes trades and swaps of "hic et nunc", one of the most popular NFT marketplaces on Tezos.

## Quipuswap

source: [demo_dex](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/tree/next/src/demo_dex)

Covers all available operations of Quipuswap DEX contracts: trades, transfers, moving liquidity. A more complex example with index templates.

## Homebase RegistryDAO

source: [demo_factories](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/tree/next/src/demo_factories)

Homebase enables users to create DAO contracts. In this example, indexes are spawned in runtime (see [Spawning in runtime](../1.getting-started/7.indexes.md#spawning-in-runtime)) for all contracts having the same script.

## Tezos Domains (`operation`)

source: [demo_domains](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/tree/next/src/demo_domains)

Tezos Domains is a distributed naming system. You probably have seen those fancy `user.tez` names while browsing explorers. This is a pretty basic example of how to index them.

## Tezos Domains (`big_map`)

source: [demo_big_maps](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/tree/next/src/demo_big_maps)

The same as above, but uses `big_map` index instead of `operation` one. The storage structure of this contract is pretty straightforward; we only need to track a single big map. This example contains `skip_history: once` directive to index only the current state of the contract before switching to realtime processing. It allows to speed up indexing even more.

## TzColors

source: [demo_auction](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/tree/next/src/demo_auction)

A very basic indexer of TzColors NFT token and marketplace. Unlike `hic et nunc` this marketplace provides auction functionality. Other than that, it is pretty much the same.
