---
title: "Quickstart"
description: "This page will guide you through the steps to get your first selective indexer up and running in a few minutes without getting too deep into the details."
navigation.icon: "stars"
network: "tezos"
---

# Quickstart

This page will guide you through the steps to get your first selective indexer up and running in a few minutes without getting too deep into the details.

Let's create an indexer for the [tzBTC FA1.2 token contract](https://tzkt.io/KT1PWx2mnDueood7fEmfbBDKx1D9BAnnXitn/operations/). Our goal is to save all token transfers to the database and then calculate some statistics of its holders' activity.

## Install DipDup

A modern Linux/macOS distribution with Python 3.11 installed is required to run DipDup.

The easiest way to install DipDup as a CLI application [pipx](https://pypa.github.io/pipx/). We have a convenient wrapper script that installs DipDup for the current user. Run the following command in your terminal:

```shell [Terminal]
curl -Lsf https://dipdup.io/install.py | python3
```

See the [Installation](https://dipdup.io/docs/installation) page for all options.

## Create a project

DipDup CLI has a built-in project generator. Run the following command in your terminal:

```shell [Terminal]
dipdup new
```

For educational purposes, we'll create a project from scratch, so choose `[none]` network and `demo_blank` template.

::banner{type="note"}
Want to skip a tutorial? Choose `Tezos` and `demo_token` instead!
::

Follow the instructions; the project will be created in the new directory.

## Write a configuration file

In the project root, you'll find a file named `dipdup.yaml`. It's the main configuration file of your indexer. We will discuss it in detail in the [Config](1.getting-started/3.config.md) section; for now just replace its content with the following:

```yaml [dipdup.yaml]
{{ #include ../src/demo_token/dipdup.yaml }}
```

## Generate types and stubs

Now it's time to generate typeclasses and callback stubs based on definitions from config. Examples below use `demo_token` as a package name; yours may differ.

Run the following command:

```shell [Terminal]
dipdup init
```

DipDup will create a Python package `demo_token` with everything you need to start writing your indexer. Use `package tree` command to see the generated structure:

```shell [Terminal]
$ dipdup package tree
demo_token [.]
├── abi
├── configs
│   ├── dipdup.compose.yaml
│   ├── dipdup.sqlite.yaml
│   ├── dipdup.swarm.yaml
│   └── replay.yaml
├── deploy
│   ├── .env.default
│   ├── Dockerfile
│   ├── compose.sqlite.yaml
│   ├── compose.swarm.yaml
│   ├── compose.yaml
│   ├── sqlite.env.default
│   └── swarm.env.default
├── graphql
├── handlers
│   ├── on_balance_update.py
│   ├── on_mint.py
│   └── on_transfer.py
├── hasura
├── hooks
│   ├── on_index_rollback.py
│   ├── on_reindex.py
│   ├── on_restart.py
│   └── on_synchronized.py
├── models
│   └── __init__.py
├── sql
├── types
│   ├── tzbtc/tezos_parameters/mint.py
│   ├── tzbtc/tezos_parameters/transfer.py
│   └── tzbtc/tezos_storage.py
└── py.typed
```

That's a lot of files and directories! But don't worry, we will need only `models` and `handlers` sections in this guide.

## Define data models

DipDup supports storing data in SQLite, PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB databases. We use custom ORM based on Tortoise ORM as an abstraction layer.

First, you need to define a model class. Our schema will consist of a single model `Holder` with the following fields:

|             |                                     |
| ----------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `address`   | account address                     |
| `balance`   | token amount held by the account    |
| `turnover`  | total amount of transfer/mint calls |
| `tx_count`  | number of transfers/mints           |
| `last_seen` | time of the last transfer/mint      |

Here's how to implement this model in DipDup:

```python [models/__init__.py]
{{ #include ../src/demo_token/models/__init__.py }}
```

## Implement handlers

Everything's ready to implement an actual indexer logic.

Our task is to index all the balance updates, so we'll start with a helper method to handle them. Create a file named `on_balance_update.py` in the `handlers` package with the following content:

```python [handlers/on_balance_update.py]
{{ #include ../src/demo_token/handlers/on_balance_update.py }}
```

Three methods of tzBTC contract can alter token balances — `transfer`, `mint`, and `burn`. The last one is omitted in this tutorial for simplicity. Edit corresponding handlers to call the `on_balance_update` method with data from matched operations:

```python [handlers/on_transfer.py]
{{ #include ../src/demo_token/handlers/on_transfer.py }}
```

```python [handlers/on_mint.py]
{{ #include ../src/demo_token/handlers/on_mint.py }}
```

And that's all! We can run the indexer now.

## Next steps

Run the indexer in memory:

```shell
dipdup run
```

Store data in SQLite database:

```shell
dipdup -c . -c configs/dipdup.sqlite.yaml run
```

Or spawn a Compose stack with PostgreSQL and Hasura:

```shell
cd deploy
cp .env.default .env
# Edit .env file before running
docker-compose up
```

DipDup will fetch all the historical data and then switch to realtime updates. You can check the progress in the logs.

If you use SQLite, run this query to check the data:

```bash
sqlite3 demo_token.sqlite 'SELECT * FROM holder LIMIT 10'
```

If you run a Compose stack, check open `http://127.0.0.1:8080` in your browser to see the Hasura console (an exposed port may differ). You can use it to explore the database and build GraphQL queries.

Congratulations! You've just created your first DipDup indexer. Proceed to the Getting Started section to learn more about DipDup configuration and features.
