---
title: Contributing
description: "Everything you need to know about contributing to DipDup"
nested: Resources
---

# Contributing

DipDup is a free and open-source software licensed under the [MIT License](#mit-license). The source code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup).

## Contributor Guide

Thanks for considering contributing to DipDup! We're happy to have you here. This document is meant to help you get started with the project. If you have any questions, feel free to open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/dipdup-io/dipdup/issues/new/choose) or join our [Discord server](https://discord.gg/aG8XKuwsQd). Have fun!

### Workflow

1. Fork the repository, clone it, and `git checkout next`.
2. Create a new branch with `git checkout -b <your-branch-name>`.
3. Make your changes. Run `make format lint` to perform basic code checks.
4. When finished, push your branch with `git push origin --set-upstream <your-branch-name>`.
5. Create a pull request to merge `<your-branch-name>` into `next`. Maintainers will review your pull request and may make comments, ask questions, or request changes. When all feedback has been addressed the pull request will be approved, and after all checks have passed it will be merged by a maintainer.

### Development environment

You'll need Python 3.12 and PDM package manager to run DipDup locally. To set up the development environment, run `pdm venv create python3.12 && pdm sync && $(pdm venv activate)`. To see the list of development commands, run `make help`.

To run integration tests you need to set `NODE_API_KEY` (Alchemy) and `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` environment variables.

## Maintainer Guide

::banner{type="warning"}
This section is intended for DipDup maintainers only! If you're a regular contributor, you don't need to read it (but welcome to do so).
::

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

### General

- All code in this repository MUST be licensed under the [MIT License](#mit-license).
- Python code in this repository MUST run on Python 3.12. Using modern language features is encouraged.
- Python code in this repository MUST run in Linux, macOS, and Docker environments, and on `amd64`, `arm64` architectures. CI will help you with that.

### Git workflow

- Default branches are `next` for the latest release and `current` for the previous one. `next` is the default branch for pull requests.
- Branch names SHOULD follow the `prefix/short-description` format. Prefixes currently in use: `feat` for features, `fix` for bugfixes, `docs` for documentation, `exp` for experiments, `ref` for refactoring, `ci` for GitHub Actions, scripts and Docker stuff, `aux` for everything else.
- Commits in pull requests MUST be squashed when merging to `next`.
- Issues and pull requests MUST have a descriptive title; they SHOULD be linked to each other, appropriately labeled, and assigned to maintainers while in progress.

### Codestyle

We use several tools to enforce the code style and decent code quality: `black` for autoformatting, `ruff` for linting, and `mypy` for type checking. All checks MUST pass before the code is merged to the default branch. Anything not enforced by these tools is up to the developer. But here are some recommendations:

- Consistency is the key. If you see a pattern in the codebase, follow it. Use meaningful names for variables, and avoid abbreviations.
- Use `NOTE/TODO/FIXME` prefixes for meaningful comments, Avoid inline comments. It helps a lot in navigating the codebase.
- Lazy imports are important to keep startup time low for tiny commands. We also do this for project imports.
- Some methods and attributes are made private to avoid cluttering the public API. Feel free to access them from the outside if you know what you are doing.
- Finally, about exact language features. f-string formatting is preferred over other syntax. Be careful with the walrus operator. Don't forget `else` in conditional expressions. Listen to your mom. We do not yet have a consensus on match-case.

### Changelog

- All changes that affect the user (developer) experience MUST be documented in the CHANGELOG.md file.
- The changelog MUST follow the "Keep a Changelog" specification (CI will break otherwise). Group order we use: Added, Fixed, Changed, Deprecated, Removed, Performance, Security, Other.
- Lines describing changes MUST be sorted and start with the component name (usually the Python module name).

### Documentation

- We have a pretty complex process of building and deploying docs. It starts with Markdown files in the `docs` directory. Then `scripts/docs.py` script generates several dynamic pages, API references, processes custom Cookiecutter-style macros, and so on. The resulting Markdown is pushed to the private frontend repository via the `docs.yml` GitHub Action. `docs.py` script code should answer most of your questions.
- All public APIs MUST be documented using docstrings. We use the reStructuredText (reST) syntax.
- A page in the "Release notes" section MUST accompany all major and minor releases. Avoid using `#include` macro in Release notes as they should not change after the publication.

### Dependencies

- All dependencies MUST be declared in `pyproject.toml` file and pinned to non-breaking versions. We are more of an application than a library, so no asterisks, please.

### Security

- GitHub Dependabot alerts about vulnerable dependencies MUST be investigated and resolved as soon as possible.
- Security-related bugfixes MUST be mentioned in the changelog under the "Security" section.

### Privacy

- DipDup MUST NOT collect any data from users.
- DipDup SHOULD NOT perform network requests to APIs not defined in config as datasources. Current exceptions: version check with GitHub.

### Docker images

- Docker images for stable releases MUST be published on Docker Hub and GitHub Container Registry.
- Maintainers MAY publish arbitrary images on GHCR and remove them when not needed.

### Scaffolding

- Project templates SHOULD cover all index types available in DipDup.
- They also MAY contain additional features and integrations.

### Demo projects

- Demos are stored in the `src` directory. They MUST be generated automatically from project templates using replay files.
- Maintainers SHOULD run `pdm demos` command regularly to ensure that demo projects are up to date.

### Releases

- Release versions MUST conform to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/). Releases that introduce breaking changes MUST be major ones.
- The latest major version is the only one supported in general. Important fixes SHOULD be backported to the previous major release.

### Release process

Releasing a new version currently requires some manual actions:

1. Ensure that all GH issues and PRs are closed and linked to the milestone.
2. Checkout to `aux/X.Y.Z` branch from `next` (or `current` for backports). Update DipDup version in `pyproject.toml`.
3. Run `make before_release` to lock dependencies, dump `requirements.txt` files, generate demo projects etc.
4. Commit and push all changes with msg like `Bump version X.Y.Z`. Open a PR, and link it to the milestone.
5. Now you may want to switch Docker images of demos we host to `aux-X.Y.Z` tag as a smoke test.
6. Merge the PR, then `git tag X.Y.Z && git push origin X.Y.Z`. Wait for `release.yml` and `docs.yml` pipelines to finish.
7. Don't forget an announcement on Twitter and Discord.

## MIT License

<!-- markdownlint-disable first-line-h1 -->
{{ #include ../LICENSE }}
