# 5.0.0

## ⚠ Breaking Changes

* Python versions 3.8 and 3.9 are no longer supported.
* `bcd` datasource has been removed.
* Two internal tables were added, `dipdup_contract_metadata` and `dipdup_token_metadata`.
* Some methods of `tzkt` datasource have changed their signatures and behavior.
* Dummy `advanced.oneshot` config flag has been removed.
* Dummy `schema approve --hashes` flag has been removed.
* `docker init` command has been removed.
* `ReindexingReason` enumeration items have been changed.

## ⚠ Migration from 4.x

* Ensure that you have a `python = "^3.10"` dependency in `pyproject.toml`.
* Remove `bcd` datasources from config. Use `metadata` datasource instead to fetch contract and token metadata.
* Update `tzkt` datasource method calls as described below.
* Run the `dipdup schema approve` command on every database you use with 5.0.0.
* Update usage of `ReindexingReason` enumeration if needed.

## What's New

### BCD API takedown

Better Call Dev API was officially deprecated in February. Thus, it's time to go for `bcd` datasource. In DipDup, it served the only purpose of fetching contract and token metadata. Now there's a separate `metadata` datasource which do the same thing but better. If you have used `bcd` datasource for custom requests, see [How to migrate from BCD to TzKT API](https://baking-bad.org/blog/2022/02/15/migrating-from-bcd-api-to-tzkt-api/) article.

### TzKT batch request pagination

Historically, most `TzktDatasource` methods had a page iteration logic hidden inside. A number of items returned by TzKT in a single request configured in `HTTPConfig.batch_size` and defaulted to 10.000. Let's say you need to fetch 25.000 big map keys with `get_big_map` method. Before this release, three requests would be performed under the hood. Over time it became clear that this approach leads to performance degradation and extensive memory usage.

| affected method | response size in 4.x | response size in 5.x |
|-|-|-|
| `get_similar_contracts` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_originated_contracts` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_big_map` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_contract_big_maps` | unlimited | max. `datasource.request_limit` |
| `get_quotes` | first `datasource.request_limit` | max. `datasource.request_limit` |

In addition, each paginated method now have a `iter_...` helper to iterate over pages:

```python
datasource = ctx.get_tzkt_datasource('tzkt_mainnet')
batch_iter = datasource.iter_big_map(
    big_map_id=big_map_id,
    level=last_level,
)
async for key_batch in batch_iter:
    for key in key_batch:
        ...
```

### Metadata interface for TzKT integration

`update_contract_metadata`

`update_token_metadata`

### Generic `http` datasource

### Prometheus integration

This version introduces initial Prometheus integration. It could help you set up monitoring, find performance issues in your code, and so on. To enable this integration, add the following lines to the config:

```yaml
prometheus:
  host: 0.0.0.0
```

> 🤓 **SEE ALSO**
>
> * [Config reference](../config/prometheus.md)
> * [Prometheus integration details](../deployment/prometheus.md)

## Changes singe 4.2.6

### Added

* config: Added `custom` section to store arbitrary user data.
* metadata: Added `metadata_interface` feature flag to expose metadata in TzKT format.
* prometheus: Added ability to expose Prometheus metrics.
* tzkt: Added missing fields to the `HeadBlockData` model.
* tzkt: Added `iter_...` methods to iterate over item batches.

### Fixed

* config: Fixed default SQLite path (`:memory:`).
* prometheus: Fixed invalid metric labels.
* tzkt: Fixed pagination in several getter methods.
* tzkt: Fixed data loss when `skip_history` option is enabled.
* tzkt: Fixed crash in methods that do not support cursor pagination.
* tzkt: Fixed possible OOM while calling methods that support pagination.
* tzkt: Fixed possible data loss in `get_originations` and `get_quotes` methods.

### Changed

* tzkt: Added `offset` and `limit` arguments to all methods that support pagination.

### Removed

* bcd: Removed `bcd` datasource and config section.
* cli: Removed `docker init` command.
* cli: Removed dummy `schema approve --hashes` flag.
* config: Removed dummy `advanced.oneshot` flag.

### Performance

* dipdup: Use fast `orjson` library instead of built-in `json` where possible.
